<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="procedure" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Procedure</title>
  <shortdesc>Plant leadership shall be accountable and responsible for providing the safety devices, equipment and prerequisite</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>shall</keyword>
        <keyword>safety</keyword>
        <keyword>local</keyword>
        <keyword>Machine</keyword>
        <keyword>equipment</keyword>
        <keyword>inspection</keyword>
        <indexterm>shall</indexterm>
        <indexterm>local</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <prodinfo>
        <prodname></prodname>
      </prodinfo>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>    <ol>
    <li>Plant leadership shall be accountable and responsible for providing the safety devices, equipment and prerequisite programs described in this document.</li>
    <li><p>PPE: All personnel working on inspection equipment shall wear Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), as specified in MSDR INS-07-001 Inspection Safety Equipment.</p>
      <ul>
    <li>Cut resistant gloves shall be carried at all times and worn when handling glass</li>
    </ul></li>
    <li>Local safety requirements through contractual agreements or local legislation shall be followed. Plant shall address how contractors and visitors will be informed of, and comply with, the plant’s safety requirements.</li>
    <li><p>All personnel working on inspection equipment shall have a safety training plan and fully documented training records in accordance with O-I regional, national, and local regulations – as well as others defined by Global Environmental Health &amp; Safety (EH&amp;S).  This includes, but is not limited to, the following:</p>
      <ul>
    <li>Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).</li>
    <li>Lockout Tagout, including adherence to the following machine specific profiles:</li>
    <li>INS-02-001-F001 Lockout Tagout Tryout Machine Profile - FP</li>
    <li>INS-02-001-F002 Lockout Tagout Tryout Machine Profile - FPX</li>
    <li>INS-02-001-F003 Lockout Tagout Tryout Machine Profile - FPX2</li>
    <li>INS-02-001-F004 Lockout Tagout Tryout Machine Profile - ICK-CE</li>
    <li>INS-02-001-F005 Lockout Tagout Tryout Machine Profile - ICK-non-CE</li>
    <li>Job-specific training.</li>
    <li>Mobile equipment as required by specific job duties, such as forklifts or scissor lifts.</li>
    </ul></li>
    <li><p>Safety warnings on machines shall be in the local language or a universally accepted safety symbol.</p>
      <ul>
    <li>English warnings should also be displayed on machines.</li>
    </ul></li>
    <li><p>A glass breaking device shall be available at each production line.</p>
      <ul>
    <li>All containers within the machine and the immediate area must be rejected when a container needs to be broken to protect from contamination.</li>
    <li>A carbide tipped glass breaking device is a recommended option.</li>
    </ul></li>
    <li>. Safety upgrades identified in MSDR INS-07-001 Inspection Safety Equipment shall be performed</li>
    <li>Cables shall be properly installed and managed to prevent trips and electrical hazards.</li>
    <li><p>Safety programs shall be implemented and practiced for all Inspection Personnel to include, but not be limited to, the following:</p>
      <ul>
    <li>A qualified first aid responder and a first aid kit must be located on site and available at all times.</li>
    <li>The area and floor around the inspection machine is kept clean, orderly, and free of glass and oil. The floor should not be slippery.</li>
    <li>No loose clothing, long or dangling jewelry, or hair extending beyond the shoulder. Long hair shall be tucked under the helmet/cap, or covered in a bandana.</li>
    <li>Hairnets may be worn in the inspection area according to plant requirements.</li>
    <li>Lighting in the inspection production area must be in working order, covered, protected, and clean.</li>
    <li>Authorized personnel performing an elevated task must wear the proper fall protection equipment as required by local regulations.</li>
    <li>Cold end housekeeping program is implemented.</li>
    <li>Follow all local regulations for lifting tasks.</li>
    </ul></li>
    <li>Injuries, incidents, and near misses shall be reported in a timely manner according to the established plant procedure.</li>
    <li>Personnel interacting with operational inspection equipment shall follow local procedures for conducting sampling safely according to Procedure INS-02-040 Inspection Equipment Validation.</li>
    <li><p>All machine enclosures, guarding and safety devices shall follow local regulations and be properly installed and functional for personal protection.</p>
      <ul>
    <li>Machine doors and electrical cabinets must remain closed and require a key or tool to prevent unauthorized access.</li>
    <li>Guard all drives and infeed / outfeed conveyors to manufacturer’s design or better.</li>
    <li>Machine guards must require a tool for removal or interlock to prevent unauthorized access.</li>
    <li>Machine safety interlocks must be utilized unless following an approved safety interlock bypass defined within a work instruction.</li>
    <li>Inspection Personnel must not remove, inhibit, or otherwise bypass any safety devices or guarding unless equipment is properly locked out and tagged out according to local regulations and O-I requirements.</li>
    <li>E-Stops for each machine must meet local requirements.</li>
    </ul></li>
    </ol></conbody>
</concept>
